In Sept 2021, I applied for a Data Science position. Here is a list my questions/answers:
---------------------------
Describe a specific situation in which you had to apply strong knowledge of SQL query language against a variety of data sets. 
 
I have one thousand hours training with Python/SQL data manipulation, but mostly using Python. For me personally, I find it easier to use SQL to extract the database 
and then use Python to manipulate data sets. For example, at Illinois State University, I invented a Python data science pandas dataFrame automation program that compares 
thousands of data transactions to Access (SQL) database records which detects unbalanced accounts, new transactions, and human error. When Dr. Walstrom the director of Python for 
Data Science at Illinois State University saw my project, he indirectly told me to apply for this job. See code for reference: https://github.com/ScottFrederickSchmidt/AccountingAutomation

On my "Amazon" site, I had a basic SQL search and recommendation section using a variety of select and insert statements. I am currently improving SQL data manipluation
because it is important when datasets get too complex or big. For example, Excel has a max of around two million rows while Python can have a max out on memory with very large,
complex dataFrame. See code for reference: https://github.com/ScottFrederickSchmidt/Amazon-like-site

I am currently taking two SQL courses, one at Illinois State University and one on Udemy. Currently, I am learning to use TABLEAU connect, calculate, and visualize to can create graphs, charts, reports, dashboards. The goal is to help users project their data by offering a huge variety of data visualization tools to choose from.
Pre-procressing on a database level has better performance. I am also using Leetcode to improve my SQL programming skills. 
See code for reference: https://github.com/ScottFrederickSchmidt/Complete-SQL-Bootcamp-and-SQL-DataAnalytics-Course


----------------------
Please detail where you gained knowledge of statistics and machine learning

Using portfolio123.com at Douglas Capital Management is machine learning, by using a database of complex finance formulas to predict future returns. 
We had simple MATLAB functions setup to help determine the statitics of the best results.

During my MBA program as an ISU graduate assistant, I generated a 95% r-squared using data analytics (depends on adjustment to overfitting). 
This identified the best candidates that would most likely successfully graduate at ISU. This was the final MBA capstone course, MQM497. 

During my MBA program at Illinois State University, I gained a vast amount of knowledge with using statics with business practices. 
Statitics was used all the time in my Data Science bootcamp, but I focused more on the Python sections because my teacher told me to.
The regression line I am most fimiliar with is Sector Vector Machine (SVM) because that is what bigger investment firms funds use. It was also briefly discussed 
in my Python Data Science course which can be found in the below link:
https://github.com/ScottFrederickSchmidt/Python-DataScience-Bootcamp

At Clark Street Capital, I used machine learning and correlations for loan and risk credit score. 
My "Amazon" website has a basic recommendation system that makes suggestions based upon current purchases.

------------------------
Please describe a complex predictive model that you have developed

At Douglas Capital Management, I used portfolio123.com database with hundreds of finance formulas to predict future returns. For instance,
 OperCashFlTTM - CapExTTM + IntExpTTM*(1-TaxRate%TTMInd/100) would be inserted into a database with an optimization process to see how this one 
 formula can effect future returns. We also had to account for missing and/or overfitting data. Basic MATLAB functions would be used to help find the statistic relevance of each formula. 
In 2019 of Q4, our returns for our agressive trading were in the top ten. However, I believe in efficient market theory and that more risk equals greater returns, 
so I have left the investment industry. I admit I am not smarter than the stock market on a simple buy and hold strategy on the USA SP500.

At Clark Street Capital, I used machine learning and correlations to predict loan risk. 


------------------------
What are the tools you have most commonly used to complete predictive analysis? 

At Illinois State University, we used JMP ® Pro Predictive to predict the best students to graduate at Illinois State University. 

For Python, I have used Pandasm Numpy, seaborn, and matplotlib.pyplot as imports.
I mostly used pandas dataFrames at Clark Street Capital and Douglas Capital Management.

At Clark Street Capital, I briefly used Tablaeu. This is what I still use today and am taking a more in depth class to see its full potential.






